---
layout: post
category: note
tagline: "Git Note"
tags: [Git]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Multi

    git fetch xxx (target branch)
    git checkout -b 1849_xxxx_xxx_xxx
    # Edit files
    git add xxx
    git commit
    (git fetch xxx)
    (git rebase xxx/xxx)
    git rebase (-i)
    -create pull request-

- - - -

# Git and Vimdiff

Reference to [usevim](http://usevim.com/2012/03/21/git-and-vimdiff/)

![vimdiff](http://usevim.com/images/posts/vimdiff.png)

## More on `git diff`

The most commonly used form is simply `git diff` -- this shows the changes
that are not currently staged for the next commit. If you've already staged
changes, `git diff --cached` will show the difference between the index and
the last commit.

Typing `git diff branch` will show a diff between the current working
directory and the named branch.

I also use `git diff --stat` to see an overview of changes. A related command
that I like to alias is `git log --pretty=format:"[%h] %ae, %ar: %s" --stat`
which shows commit history with the files that were changed.

## Vimdiff

Vimdiff can be run from the command-line with `vimdiff file1 file2 [file3]
[file4]]`. This actually starts Vim in diff mode -- the previous command is
actually equivalent to `vim -d file1 file2 [file3 [file4]]`. Vim requires a
`diff` command to be available for this to work. Vim's documentation on this is
available in `:help diff`.

## Git Settings

Fortunately for us Vim fanatics, it's fairly easy to get Vimdiff working with
Git. Git has a lot of options for working with diffs, and one is `diff.tool`
(man page: `man git-config`). Also related is the `merge.tool` setting which
can be set to allow Vimdiff to be used as the merge resolution program.

These settings can be passed to Git without changing any configuration files:

    git difftool --tool=vimdiff --no-prompt

To tell Git to always use Vimdiff, issue the following commands:

    git config --global diff.tool vimdiff
    git config --global merge.tool vimdiff

Omit `--global` if you just want to set these for the repository in the working
directory. Now typing `git difftool` should bring up Vimdiff.

Another useful option is `difftool.prompt` -- this will stop Vim prompting
about launching `vimdiff`:

    git config --global difftool.prompt false

If you're just trying these commands out, then the prompt will seem annoying,
but there are cases where you might want to ignore a few files so it can be
useful.

## Editing Changed Files

I find myself combining Git's output with `vim -p` on certain occasions when I
want to edit each changed file:

    vim -p `git diff --name-only`

## References and Link

 * [cheat vimdiff](http://cheat.errtheblog.com/s/vimdiff/)
 * [git-config(1) Manual Page](http://schacon.github.com/git/git-config.html)
 * [git-diff(1) Manual Page](http://schacon.github.com/git/git-diff.html)
 * [:help diff](http://vimdoc.sourceforge.net/htmldoc/diff.html)

- - - -

# Rewriting history

Reference to [atlassian tutorials](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/rewriting-history/git-rebase)

![pic](https://www.atlassian.com/git/images/tutorials/getting-started/rewriting-history/hero.svg)

## Intro

Git's main job is to make sure you never lose a committed change. But, it's
alse designed to give you total control over your development workflow. This
includes letting you define exactly what your project history looks like;
however, it alse creates the potential to lose commits. Git provides its
history-rewriting commands under the disclaimer that using them may result in
lost content.

This rutorial discusses some of the most common reasons for overwriting
committed snapshots and shows you how to avoid the pitfalls of doing so.

## Git commit --ammend

The git commit --amend commands is a convenient way to fix up the most recent
commit. It lets you combine staged changes with the previous commit instead of
committing it as an entirely new snapshot. It can also be used to simply edit
the previous commit message without changing its snapshot.

![amend example](https://www.atlassian.com/git/images/tutorials/getting-started/rewriting-history/01.svg)

But, amending doesn't just alter the most recent commit - it replaces it
entirely. To Git, it will look like a brand new commit, which is visualized
with an asterisk (\*) in the diagram above. It's important to keep this in mind
when working with public repositories.

### Usage

    git commit --amend

Combine the staged changes with the previous commit and replace the previous
commit with the resulting snapshot. Running this when there is nothing staged
lets you edit the previous commit's message without altering its snapshot.

**DIscussion**

Premature commits happen all the time in the course of your everyday
develoopment. It's easy to forget to stage a file or to format your commit
message the wrong way. The --amend flag is a convenient way to fix these little
mistakes.

**Don't Amend Public Commits**

On the [git reset][git reset url] page, we talked about how you shold never
reset commits that have been shared with other developers. The same goes for
amending: never amend commits that have been pushed to a public repository.

Amended commits are actually entirely new commits, and the previous commit is
removed from the project history. This has the same consequences as resetting a
public snapshot. If you amend a commit that other developers have based their
work on, it will look like the basis of their work vanished from the project
history. This is a confusin situation for developers to be in and it's
complicated to recover from.

### Example

The following example demonstrates a common scenario in Git-based development.
We edit a few files that we would like to commit in a single snapshot, but then
we forget to add one of the files the first time around. Fixing the error is
simply a matter of staging the other file and committing with the --amend flag:

    # Edit hello.py and main.py
    git add hello.py
    git ommit

    # Realize you forgot to add the changes from main.py
    git add main.py
    git commit --amend --no-edit

The editor will be populated with the message from the previous commit and
include the --no-edit flag with allow you to make the amendment to your commit
without changing its commit message. You can change it if necessary, otherwise
just save and close the file as usual.The resulting commit will replace the
incomplete one, and it will look like we committed the changes to hello.py and
main.py in a single snapshot.

## Git rebase

Rebasing is the prcess of moving a branch to a new base commit.

The general process can be visualized as the following:

![rebase example](https://www.atlassian.com/git/images/tutorials/getting-started/rewriting-history/02.svg)

From a content perspective, rebasing really is just moving a branch from one
commit to another. But internally, Git accomplishes this by creating new
commits and applying them to the specified base - it's literally rewriting your
project history. It's very important to understand that, even though the branch
looks the same, it's composed of entirelly new commits.

### Usage

    git rebase <base>

Rebase the current branch onto <base>, which can be any kind of commit
reference  (an ID, a branch name, a tag, or a relative reference to HEAD).

**Discussion**

The primary reason for rebasing is to maintain a linear project history.

For example, consider a situation where the master branch has progressed since
you started working on a feature:

![example](https://www.atlassian.com/git/images/tutorials/getting-started/rewriting-history/03.svg)

You have two options for integrating your feature into the master branch:
merging directly or rebasing and then merging. The former option results in a
3-way merge and a merge commit, while the latter results in a fast-forward
merge and a perfectly liner history. The following diagram demonstrates how
rebasing onto master facilitates a fast-forward merge.

![rebasing onto master](https://www.atlassian.com/git/images/tutorials/getting-started/rewriting-history/04.svg)

Rebasing is a common way to integrate upstream changes into your local
repository. Pulling in upstream changes with git merge results in a superfluous
merge commit every time you want to see how the project has progressed. On the
other hand, rebasing is like saying, "I want to base my changes on what
everybody has already done."

**Don't Rebase Public History**

As we've discussed with git commit --amend and git reset, you should never
rebase commits that have been pushed to a public repository. The rebase would
replace the old commits with new ones, and it would look like that part of your
project history abruptly vanished.

### Examples

The example below combines git rebase with git merge to maintain a linear
project history. This is a quick and easy way to ensure that your merges will
be fast-forwarded.

    # Start a new feature
    git checkout -b new-feature master
    # Edit files
    git commit -a -m "Start developing a feature"

In the midlle of our feature, we realize there's a security hole in our project

    # Create a hotfix branch based off of master
    git checkout -b hotfix master
    # Edit files
    git commit -a -m "Fix security hole"
    # Merge back into master
    git checkout master
    git merge hotfix
    git branch -d hotfix

After merging the hotfix into master, we have a forked project history. Instead
of a plain git merge, we'll integrate the feature branch with a rebase to
maintain a linear history:

    git checkout new-feature
    git rebase master

This moves new-feature to the tip of master, which lets us do a standard
fast-forward merge from master:

    git checkout master
    git merge new-feature

## Git rebase -i

Running git rebase with the -i flag begins an interactive rebasing session.
Instead of blindly moving all of the commits to the new base, interactive
rebasing gives you the opportunity to alter individual commits in the
process.This lets you clean up history by removing, splitting, and altering an
existing series of commits. It's like git commit --amend on steroids.

### Usage

    git rebase -i <base>

Rebase the current branch onto <base>, but use an interactive rebasing session.
This opens an editor where you can enter commands (described below) for each
commit to be rebased. These commands determine how individual commits will be
transferred to the new base You can also reorder the commit listing to change
the order of the commits themselves.

**Discussion**

Interactive rebasing gives you complete control over what your project history
looks like. This affords a lot of freedom to developers, as it lets them commit
a "messy" history while they're focused on writing code, then go back and clean
it up after the fact.

Most developers like to use an interactive rebase to polish a feature branch
before merging it into the main code base. This gives them the opportunity to
squash insignificant commits, delete obsolete ones, and make sure everything
else is in order before committing to the "official" project history. To
everybody else, it will look like the entire feature was developed in a
single series of well-planned commits.

### Example

The example found below is an interactive adaptation of the one from the
non-interactive git rebase page.

    # Start a new feature
    git checkout -b new-feature master
    # Edit files
    git commit -a -m "Start developing a feature"
    # Edit more files
    git commit -a -m "Fix something from the previous commit"
    
    # Add a commit directly to master
    git checkout master
    # Edit files
    git commit -a -m "Fix security hole"
    
    # Begin an interactive rebasing session
    git checkout new-feature
    git rebase -i master

The last command will open an editor populated with the two commits from
new-feature, along with some instructions:

    pick 32618c4 Start developing a feature
    pick 6233d47 Fix something from the previous commit

You can change the pick commands before each commit to determine how it gets
moved during the rebase. In our case, let's just combine the two commits with a
squash command:

    pick 32618c4 Start developing a feature
    squash 5233d47 Fix something from the previous commit

Save and close the editor to begin the rebase. This will open another editor
asking for the commit message for the combined snapshot. After defining the
commit message, the rebase is complete and you should be able to see the
squashed commit in your git log output. This entire process can be visualized
as follows:

![squash commit](https://www.atlassian.com/git/images/tutorials/getting-started/rewriting-history/05.svg)

Note that the squashed commit has a different ID than either of the original
commits, which tells us that it is indeed a brand enw commit.

Finally, you can do a fast-forward merge to integrate the polished feature
branch into the main code base:

    git checkout master
    git merge new-feature

The real power of interactive rebasing can be seen in the history of the
resulting master branch - the extra 62eed47 commit is nowhere to be found. To
everybody else, it looks like you're a brilliant developer who implemented the
new-feature with the perfect amount of commits the first time around. This is
how interactive rebasing can keep a project's history clean and meaningful.

## Git reflog

Git keeps track of updates to the tip of branches using a mechanism called
reflog. This allows you to goback to changesets even though they are not
referenced by any branch or tag. After rewriting history, the reflog contains
information about the old state of branches and allows you to go back to that
state if necessary.

### Usage

    git reflog

Show the reflog for the local repository.

    git reflog --relative-date

Show the reflog with relative date information (e.g. 2 weeks ago).

**Discussiont**

Every time the current HEAD gets updated (by switching branches, pulling in new
changes, rewriting history or simply by adding new commits) a new entry will be
added to the reflog.

### Example

To understand git reflog, let's run through an example.

    0a2e358 HEAD@{0}: reset: moving to HEAD~2
    0254ea7 HEAD@{1}: checkout: moving from 2.2 to master
    c10f740 HEAD@{2}: checkout: moving from maser to 2.2

The reflog above shows a checkout from master to the 2.2 branch and back. From
there, there's a hard reset to an older commit. The latest activity is
represented at the top labeled HEAD@{0}.

If it turns out that you accidentially moved back, the reflog will contain the
commit master pointed to (0254ea7) before you accidentially dropped 2 commits.

    git reset --hard 0254ea7

Using [git reset][git reset url] it is then possible to change master back to
the commit it was befor. This provides a safety net in case history was
accidentially change.

It's important to note that the reflog only provides a safety net if changes
have been commited to your local repository and that it only tracks movements.

[git reset url]: https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/undoing-changes/git-reset
